#summary Coding Practices and Guidelines

<wiki:toc max_depth="1" />

= General Guidelines =
----
|| *Term* || *Description* ||
|| Pascal case || The first letter in the identifier and the first letter of each subsequent concatenated word are capitalized. You can use Pascal case for identifiers of three or more characters.<br>_Example: BackColor_ ||
|| Camel case || The first letter of an identifier is lowercase and the first letter of each subsequent concatenated word is capitalized.<br>_Example: backColor_ ||        
|| Hungarian notation || Hungarian notation is a naming convention in computer programming, in which the name of a variable indicates its type or intended use. In other words, it is the practice of including a prefix in identifiers to encode some metadata about the parameter, such as the data type of the identifier.<br>_Example: strBackColor (backColor is string type)_ ||

*Naming*
  * Use abbreviations only when needed.
  * Do not use underscores. Except in constants.
  * Do not use acronyms that are not generally accepted in the computing field. Where appropriate, use well-known acronyms to replace lengthy phrase names.<br>_E.g. use “OnButtonClick” instead of “OnBtnClick”._
  * Do not use namings that differ by only casing.<br>_E.g. namespace ee.cummings; namespace Ee.Cummings;_
  * Do not use Hungarian notation for naming properties and fields<br>_E.g. string strBackColor_

*Other Pointers*
  * If you need to hard code a value/string, declare them as constants. 
  * Method name should explain what it does. Do not use misleading names. 
  * Write comments wherever required. Good readable code will require very little comments. If all variables and method names are meaningful, that would already make the code fairly readable. 

= Class =
----
*Naming*
  * Use Pascal casing.<br>_E.g. public class StudentRegistration_

= Interface =
----
*Naming*
  * Use Pascal casing.<br>_E.g. public interface IRegistration_
  * Prefix with I in front of naming.

= Methods =
----
*Naming*
  * Use Pascal casing.<br>_E.g. SaveFolderPaths()_

= Parameter =
----
*Naming*
  * Use Camel casing.<br>_E.g. string studentName_